# <p style = "text-align: center">PREDEFINED C LANGUAGE FUNCTIONS</p>

## I. String Functions: `string.h`

**A. COPY**

1. > `stpcpy(string1, string2) / strcpy(string1, string2)`

- copies the contents of string2 to string1

2. > `strncpy(target, source, count)`

- Used to copy to count characters from the string source into the string target, target and source overlap, the behavior of strncpy( ) is undefined; if string pointed by source has fewer count characters, nulls are appended.

3. >`strxfrm(target, source, count)`  

- Copies up to count characters from the string source into the string target.  It returns the length of the string source.  This function is the same with the strncpy.

**B. CONCATENATE**

1. >`strcat(string1, string2)`

- Concatenates the value of `string1` and `string2`; assigns these values to string and leave `string2`untouched.

2. >`strncat(string1, string2)`

- Concatenates no more than count characters of `string2` to `string1` and assigns this to `string1`; `string2` is untouched by the operation.

**C. COMPARES**

1. ` strcmp(string1, string2) / strcoll(string1, string2) `

- Compares string1 and string2 and returns an integer based on the following:

    | Value     |   Meaning|
    |----------|:-------:|
    $< 0$        | string1 is less than string2
    $0$   |   string1 is equal to string2
    | > 0      |string1 is greater than string2

2. > ` stricmp(string1,string2) / strcmpi(string1,string2) `

- Compares two strings while ignoring cases; `strcmpi()` is a macro that translates to a `stricmp()` call.

    | Value     |   Meaning|
    |----------|:-------:|
    $< 0$        | string1 is less than string2
    $0$   |   string1 is equal to string2
    | > 0      |string1 is greater than string2

3. > `strncmp(string1,string2,count)`  
    > `strnicmp(string1,string2,count)` \
    >`strncmpi(string1,string2,count)`

- Compares no more than count characters for the two strings; `strncmpi()` and `strnicmp()` ignore cases.

**D. ERROR**

1. > `_strerror(string)`

- Lets you display your on error message followed by a colon and most recent error generated by the program.

2. > `strerror(number)`

- Returns a pointer to the error message associated with an error number.

**E. CASE**

1. > `strlwr(string)`

- Converts the string to lowercase.

2. > `strupr(string)`

- Converts the string to uppercase.

**F. SET**

1. > `strnset(string,c,count)`

- Sets the first count character in the string to the value of c.

2. > `strset(string,ch)`

- Sets all characters in the string to the value of ch.

**G. MATCH**

1. > `strcspn(string1,string2)`

- Returns the index of the first character in string1 that matches any of the characters in string2.

2. > `strspn(string1,string2)`

- Returns the index of the first character in string1 that does not match any of the characters in string2.

3. > `strpbrk(string1,string2)`

- Returns a pointer to the first character in the string pointed to by string1 that matches any character in the string pointed to be string2.

4. > `strrchr(string,c)`

- Returns a pointer to the last occurrence of c in the string.  If no match is found, it returns a null pointer.

**H. OTHERS**

1. > `strchr(string, c)`

- Returns a substring of string beginning at the first occurrence of character c up to the end of string

2. > `strdup(string)`

- Holds a duplicate of the string pointed to by string.

3. > `strlen(string)`

- Returns the length of the string(null is not counted).

4. > `strrev(string)`

- Reverses all characters except the null terminator in the string.

## II. MATHEMATICAL FUNCTION: `math.h`

1. > `abs()` - syntax: `int abs(int num);`

- The `abs()` function that returns the absolute value of integer number.

2. > `ceil()` – syntax: `double ceil(double num);`

- The `ceil()` function returns the smallest integer not less than num represented as double.

3. > `fabs()` – syntax: `double fabs(double num);`

- The `fabs()` function returns the float absolute value of num.

4. > `floor()` – syntax: `double floor(double num);`

- The `floor()` function returns the largest integer not greater than num, represented as double.

5. > `fmod()` – syntax: `double fmod(double x, double y);`

- The `fmod()` function returns the remainder of x/y.

6. > `pow()` – syntax: `double pow(double base, double exp)`

- The `pow()` function returns base raised to the exp power (base exp).

7. > `pow10()` – syntax: `double pow10(int n);`
 The `pow10()` function returns 10 raised to the power n. Overflow and underflow are the only possible errors.

8. > `sqrt()` – syntax: `double sqrt(double num);`
 The `sqrt()` function return the square root of num.  If called with a negative argument domain error will occur.

## III. CHARACTER FUNCTION: `ctype.h`

1. > `isalnum()` –syntax: `int isalnum(int ch);`
 The `isalnum()` function returns non-zero if its argument is either a letter of the alphabet or a digit.

2. > `isalpha()` – syntax: `int isalpha(int ch);`

- The `isalpha()` function returns non-zero if ch is a letter of the alphabet otherwise zero is returned.

3. > `isdigit()` – syntax: `int isdigit(int ch)`

- The isdigit() function returns non-zero if ch is a digit, that is 0-9, otherwise zero is returned.

4. > `islower()-` syntax: `int islower(int ch);`

- The `islower()` function returns non-zero if ch is a lowercase letter(`a-z`); otherwise zero is returned.

5. > `ispunct()` – syntax: `int ispunct(int ch);`
 The `ispunct()` function returns non-zero if ch is a punctuation character, excluding the space; otherwise zero is returned.

6. > `isspace()` – syntax: `int isspace(int ch);`

- The `isspace()` function returns non-zero if ch is one of the following: a space, tab, vertical tab, form feed, carriage return, newline; otherwise zero is returned.

7. > `tolower()` – syntax: `int tolower(int ch);`

- The tolower() function returns the lowercase equivalent of ch if ch is a letter, otherwise, ch is returned unchanged.

8. > `toupper()` – syntax: `int toupper(int ch);`

- The `toupper()` function returns the uppercase equivalent of ch, if c is a letter, otherwise ch is returned unchanged.

## III. CONVENTIONAL FUNCTIONS: `stdlib.h`

1. > `atof()` – syntax: `double atof(const char *str);`

- The `atof()` function convert the string pointed to be str into a double value.

2. > `atoi()` – syntax: `int atoi(const char *str);`

- The `atoi()` function converts the string pointed to by str into an int value.  The string must contain valid int value, if not zero is returned.

3. > `atol()` - syntax: `int atol(const char *str);`

- The `atol()` function converts the string pointed to by str into a long int value.  The string must contain valid long int value.

4. > `itoa()` – syntax: `char *itoa(int num, char *str, int radix);`

- The `itoa()` function converts the integer number into string equivalent and places the result in the string pointed to be str.  The base of the output string is determined by radix which can be in the range of $2 – 36.$  This function returns a pointer to str.  There is no error return value.  Be sure to call `itoa()` with a string of sufficient length to hold the converted result.  The maximum length needed  is 17 bytes.